hi Damion Rutherford here with Jes with
a very first episode of chalkboard chat
where we answer your questions about
foundation repair crawl space repair and
basement waterproofing today's question
comes from Scott right in my hometown of
Virginia Beach Virginia and he asked
what's the best way to eliminate
moisture from my crawlspace well Scott
it's a great question and to eliminate
any moisture from your crawlspace the
first thing you do is you have to find
the source of the moisture so that
involves having an inspection done or
some type of evaluation whether it's by
professional or you do it yourself now
if your crawlspace looks anything like
this like a lot of crawl spaces we see
it's probably not a place you want to
spend a lot of your time at so if you
just don't want to deal with it take
some advice get a professional to do it
for you J yes we do it free of charge
we'll do an inspection to find out
what's causing the problem why and what
can be done to solve the problems but if
you do want to do it yourself let me go
over a couple of things to look for to
find out what the source of the moisture
in your crawlspace is first of all
realize there's three sources where
moisture can come come into your
crawlspace from there first one is
moisture from outside of your crawlspace
for example when it rains we have a snow
that melts the ground becomes saturated
with water the water table Rises and
water comes into your crawlspace from
that source it's a great picture to show
you a great example where the crawlspace
is flooded and this is from moisture
from groundwater another thing to look
for is your crawlspace door is the
crawlspace door loose or the gaps around
it is there not one there at all if this
is the case that's another source for
outside of water and moisture to get
into your crawlspace when there's gaps
there the groundwater can runoff into
your crawlspace or even when it rains
you can have water receive in from from
the wind that blows when it does rain
likewise look at your crawlspace vents
if they're open same thing can apply
when there's rain there's wind and the
wind can blow the rain right into your
crawlspace through the crawlspace vents
now the second thing you look for in
your crawlspace for moisture is sources
from
the crawlspace a good example of that is
any type of piping or plumbing that you
have in your crawlspace that can leak
this can be one of the sources of
moisture that you get in your crawlspace
some homeowners in the area they have
their hot water heater and down in the
crawlspace and take a look at that
equipment you have down there if that
leaks or bust that could be a source of
moisture in your crawlspace in a third
way that moisture gets in your
crawlspace is from high humidity levels
this is the one that people tend to
forget about when you have hot air on
the outside and cool air on the inside
in your crawlspace we mix hot air and
cold air together we get you guested
condensation when you have high humidity
levels like a look at this picture here
we have a relative humidity level of
almost 88 percent now when we're at 100%
relative humidity we get rain so 88% is
very very high here's another reading at
nearly 82 percent so when you have this
high humidity levels that can cause
condensation that you see on the piping
and plumbing in your crawlspace I can
also be the reason why you'll get wood
rot either in the subfloor or the beams
in your in your crawlspace you may also
see condensation start to form on any
ductwork that's in your crawlspace as
you can see in this picture here and
it's also the reason you'll see the
insulation your crawlspace begin to fail
start to rot and fall down and hang it's
because it's getting wet from moisture
in the air the condensation that we
talked about from the humidity levels so
not very good not healthy for your
crawlspace or your home whatsoever so
the first thing is to find out what the
source of the moisture is in your
crawlspace once you know the source then
you can stop the source and you do the
same way that we inspect it first thing
we do is we stop any type of outside
moisture from getting in your crawlspace
secondly we stop any type of inside
moisture leaks from happening and third
we control the humidity levels in the
air in your crawlspace we do all three
of these we've created a conditioned
crawl space that will be dry healthy and
as an added benefit you can actually
pick up added storage space on your
crawlspace because you have a condition
that you can store your belongings in so
it's a great idea just for the health of
your home as well as for the integrity
of the crawlspace itself to keep any
type of moisture out
and that's it so I hope you found this
video helpful if you did do me a favor
right below here click on the like
button and like the video and let me
know that you appreciate the information
if you have a comment to share share it
with me if you have a different opinion
of any of the information I've shared
don't be afraid to share that with us
HIPPA question yourself you'd like to
have it answered go ahead and ask it you
can leave a comment on the video here or
on our YouTube channel and we'll be glad
to answer any questions you have
and that's it I'm Damion Rutherford with
j/s and we'll see you next time with
chalkboard chat